input/_photos/2022-pikes-peak-aframe.md, before:

---
title: 'Pikes Peak A-Frame repair project'
date: '2022-08-27T14:00:00'
tags:
  - story
  - portfolio
introduction: '
  ## Pikes Peak A-Frame repair project
  
  In August 2022, a group of volunteers with [Colorado Mountain Club](https://www.cmc.org) set out to repair the A-Frame shelter on Barr Trail, the 12.5 mile trail that winds from Manitou Springs to the summit of Pikes Peak. This is a document of their work.
  '
images:
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/25.jpg'
    alt: 'people working on a construction scene at the Pikes Peak A-Frame'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/05.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/00.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: third
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/01.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: third
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/02.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: third
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/03.jpg'
    alt: 'a view of the summit house on the top of Pikes Peak'
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/04.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/06.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/07.jpg'
    alt: 'a portrait of hiker in early morning light on top of a mountain'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/09.jpg'
    alt: ''
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/08.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/10.jpg'
    alt: ''
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/11.jpg'
    alt: 'a hiker walking past the Barr Trail dedication sign to Fred Barr'
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/12.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/13.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/14.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/15.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/16.jpg'
    alt: 'a sign on Barr Trail marking 2 miles to the summit'
    style: center
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/18.jpg'
    alt: 'sign on the A-Frame MAINTAINED FOR US FOREST SERVICE BY PIKES PEAK GROUP COLORADO MOUNTAIN CLUB'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/17.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/19.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/20.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/21.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/22.jpg'
    alt: 'a smiling person peeking over the roof of the Pikes Peak A-Frame'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/23.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/24.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/25.jpg'
    alt: 'people working on a construction scene at the Pikes Peak A-Frame'
    style: center
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/26.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: left
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/27.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: left
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/28.jpg'
    alt: 'a photographic guide to the construction effort showing areas that need work'
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/29.jpg'
    alt: 'a man turning to smile at those working around him'
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/30.jpg'
    alt: 'cutting through a support for the a-frame structure with a saw'
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/31.jpg'
    alt: 'finishing cutting through a support for the a-frame structure'
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/32.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/33.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/34.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/35.jpg'
    alt: ''

---

Commit message:

add essay to a-frame post

input/_photos/2022-pikes-peak-aframe.md, after:

---
title: 'Pikes Peak A-Frame repair project'
date: '2022-08-27T14:00:00'
tags:
  - story
  - portfolio
introduction: '
  ## Pikes Peak A-Frame repair project
  
  In August 2022, a group of volunteers with [Colorado Mountain Club](https://www.cmc.org) set out to repair the A-Frame shelter on Barr Trail, the 12.5 mile trail that winds from Manitou Springs to the summit of Pikes Peak. This is a document of their work.
  '
images:
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/25.jpg'
    alt: 'people working on a construction scene at the Pikes Peak A-Frame'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/05.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/00.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: third
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/01.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: third
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/02.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: third
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/03.jpg'
    alt: 'a view of the summit house on the top of Pikes Peak'
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/04.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/06.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/07.jpg'
    alt: 'a portrait of hiker in early morning light on top of a mountain'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/09.jpg'
    alt: ''
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/08.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/10.jpg'
    alt: ''
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/11.jpg'
    alt: 'a hiker walking past the Barr Trail dedication sign to Fred Barr'
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/12.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/13.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/14.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/15.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/16.jpg'
    alt: 'a sign on Barr Trail marking 2 miles to the summit'
    style: center
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/18.jpg'
    alt: 'sign on the A-Frame MAINTAINED FOR US FOREST SERVICE BY PIKES PEAK GROUP COLORADO MOUNTAIN CLUB'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/17.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/19.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/20.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/21.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/22.jpg'
    alt: 'a smiling person peeking over the roof of the Pikes Peak A-Frame'
    style: full
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/23.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/24.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/25.jpg'
    alt: 'people working on a construction scene at the Pikes Peak A-Frame'
    style: center
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/26.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: left
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/27.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: left
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/28.jpg'
    alt: 'a photographic guide to the construction effort showing areas that need work'
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/29.jpg'
    alt: 'a man turning to smile at those working around him'
    style: right
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/30.jpg'
    alt: 'cutting through a support for the a-frame structure with a saw'
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/31.jpg'
    alt: 'finishing cutting through a support for the a-frame structure'
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/32.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/33.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: half
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/34.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: left
  - src: '2022-pikes-peak-aframe/35.jpg'
    alt: ''
    style: left

---

The A-Frame shelter is a special place. Marking the tree line on Barr Trail, this spot has a scenic view of downtown Colorado Springs, and is a safe resting point before the final climb to the summit of Pikes Peak. Whenever I hike here, I almost always take a stop here to refill water at the creek, and to reflect on the hike ahead. Along with [Barr Camp](https://barrcamp.com), this refuge for camping and picnicking makes Barr Trail one of the most hospitable and friendly fourteener trails in Colorado.

I took on this project as a part of my interest in documenting Barr Trail and its rich social life. It was impressive to see these volunteers from Colorado Springs and beyond come together to maintain and repair the A-Frame. Since 1964, the shelter has been maintained by the US Forest Service, and since 1999, Colorado Mountain Club has taken on the responsibility, rebuilding the roof and repainting the shelter in 2008. 37 volunteers returned for this summer 2022 multi-weekend project.

It is a massive amount of work, bringing construction materials down by foot from the Pikes Peak summit. There is no way to bring a vehicle to this point of the trail, so these volunteers carried half a ton of materials down the mountain – 3 and a half miles down over 2000 feet of elevation. Volunteers worked together to repaint the interior, remove the existing roof, install the new roof, and replace the wooden supports.
